README.md, before:

# DO Addon Connector

Sets up your site to connect with DO via resource provisioning, plan updates, web-hook notifications, and SSO.

## Requirements

If you use Devise to authenticate `Users`, this should work mostly out of the box.  Each customer of your addon will be mapped to a single `User` in your app. With some customization (see below) you could easily adapt this to work with some other approach, like `Account` or `Tenant` mapping.

This connector attempts to be flexible and work with most account/user designs by allowing you to customize what happens after a resource has been provisioned or changed.  You can do this through custom logic inserted through Rails Concerns.

## Installation

Add to your `Gemfile`.

``` bash
gem 'do_addon_connector', git: 'https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector'
bundle install
```

Next install and migrate the database, then run the installation script:

```
bin/rails do_addon_connector:install:migrations
rails db:migrate
bin/rails g do_addon_connector:install
```

Finally, mount the connector in `routes.rb`
```
  mount DoAddonConnector::Engine => '/connectors'
```

The install script will add an initializer and some `Concerns` which give you complete flexibility over how your application reacts to a provisioning or SSO request. 

## Configuration

The initializer `do_addon_connector.rb` defines configuration values as follows:

``` ruby
# config/initializers/do_addon_connector.rb

DoAddonConnector.setup do |config|
  # 
  # Service Name
  # ======================
  # This is the name of the parent service.  It is used in
  # messages sent back to the user 
  config.service_name = "Application"

  # App Slug
  # ======================
  # This is the slug used by your app.
  config.slug = "acme"

  # Password
  # ======================
  # This is the password assigned to your resource.
  config.password = "password" 

  # Salt
  # ======================
  # This is the salt assigned to your resource.
  config.salt = "sso_salt"
  
  # Secret
  # ======================
  # This is the client secret assigned to your resource
  config.secret = "do_secret".

  # SSO Token Expiration
  # ======================
  # This is how long in seconds before the authentication token 
  # is expired.
  config.token_expires_in = 120

  # Source
  # ======================
  # This represents the source of the user, and can be used
  # to customize your app experience for this type of account.
  config.source = 'digitalocean'

  # SSO Redirect
  # ======================
  # This determines where the user should be taken after a successful SSO.
  # This can also be handled in the `Concern` file.
  config.redirect_to = 'https://scrubl.com/dashboard'
end

```
## Custom behavior with Concerns

The installation script adds several `Concerns` to your app.  These are used to define app behavior in response to the different actions provided by the provisioning service:

## Resource Actions

**Resource Creation** - when the service sends a resource creation request, your app should add an account and/or create a login for the user who has provisioned the app.  You can configure how the account/user gets created using: https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector/blob/master/lib/generators/do_addon_connector/controllers/concerns/resources_controller_extension.rb

Important: The resource creation concern *must set* an `@account` instance variable.  Failure to do this will cause your provisioning to fail.

**Other Resource actions**

The resource API also allows for updating and deleting a resource in your app. Use the `customer_extensions` concern to add context from metadata and set the resources initial plan subscription. https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector/blob/master/lib/generators/do_addon_connector/models/concerns/customer_extensions.rb

More described here:

**Plan upgrade/downgrade** - The above file also includes an action for upgrading and downgrading plans in response to a request from the provisioning service.

**Resource destruction** - When DO sends a resource deletion request, your app will need to handle that.  You can specify what else will happen in this `Concern`.

## SSO Login request 

When a DO user sends a SSO request, you will need to log them into your app. How you authenticate a user is up to your app, but you can use the following to respond to the SSO login request: https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector/blob/master/lib/generators/do_addon_connector/controllers/concerns/sso_login_extension.rb

## Notifications

The service will send notification webhooks to your app when certain events happen. If a customer fails to pay their bill, a webhook indicating this will be sent to your app.  Likewise, if the same customer becomes current again, another notification indicating this will be sent.

You can customize how your app behaves in response to any notification with `notifications_concern`.


## Contributing
Contribution directions go here.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). Copyright 2022 Scott Miller, Helpy.io, Inc.

Commit message:

Add debug switch to enable/disable logging of tokens, etc

README.md, after:

# DO Addon Connector

Sets up your site to connect with DO via resource provisioning, plan updates, web-hook notifications, and SSO.

## Requirements

If you use Devise to authenticate `Users`, this should work mostly out of the box.  Each customer of your addon will be mapped to a single `User` in your app. With some customization (see below) you could easily adapt this to work with some other approach, like `Account` or `Tenant` mapping.

This connector attempts to be flexible and work with most account/user designs by allowing you to customize what happens after a resource has been provisioned or changed.  You can do this through custom logic inserted through Rails Concerns.

## Installation

Add to your `Gemfile`.

``` bash
gem 'do_addon_connector', git: 'https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector'
bundle install
```

Next install and migrate the database, then run the installation script:

```
bin/rails do_addon_connector:install:migrations
rails db:migrate
bin/rails g do_addon_connector:install
```

Finally, mount the connector in `routes.rb`
```
  mount DoAddonConnector::Engine => '/connectors'
```

The install script will add an initializer and some `Concerns` which give you complete flexibility over how your application reacts to a provisioning or SSO request. 

## Configuration

The initializer `do_addon_connector.rb` defines configuration values as follows:

``` ruby
# config/initializers/do_addon_connector.rb

DoAddonConnector.setup do |config|
  # 
  # Service Name
  # ======================
  # This is the name of the parent service.  It is used in
  # messages sent back to the user 
  config.service_name = "Application"

  # App Slug
  # ======================
  # This is the slug used by your app.
  config.slug = "acme"

  # Password
  # ======================
  # This is the password assigned to your resource.
  config.password = "password" 

  # Salt
  # ======================
  # This is the salt assigned to your resource.
  config.salt = "sso_salt"
  
  # Secret
  # ======================
  # This is the client secret assigned to your resource
  config.secret = "do_secret".

  # SSO Token Expiration
  # ======================
  # This is how long in seconds before the authentication token 
  # is expired.
  config.token_expires_in = 120

  # Source
  # ======================
  # This represents the source of the user, and can be used
  # to customize your app experience for this type of account.
  config.source = 'digitalocean'

  # SSO Redirect
  # ======================
  # This determines where the user should be taken after a successful SSO.
  # This can also be handled in the `Concern` file.
  config.redirect_to = 'https://scrubl.com/dashboard'

  # Debug
  # ======================
  # Logs additional information and stores SSO tokens for later inspection
  config.debug = false
end

```
## Custom behavior with Concerns

The installation script adds several `Concerns` to your app.  These are used to define app behavior in response to the different actions provided by the provisioning service:

## Resource Actions

**Resource Creation** - when the service sends a resource creation request, your app should add an account and/or create a login for the user who has provisioned the app.  You can configure how the account/user gets created using: https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector/blob/master/lib/generators/do_addon_connector/controllers/concerns/resources_controller_extension.rb

Important: The resource creation concern *must set* an `@account` instance variable.  Failure to do this will cause your provisioning to fail.

**Other Resource actions**

The resource API also allows for updating and deleting a resource in your app. Use the `customer_extensions` concern to add context from metadata and set the resources initial plan subscription. https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector/blob/master/lib/generators/do_addon_connector/models/concerns/customer_extensions.rb

More described here:

**Plan upgrade/downgrade** - The above file also includes an action for upgrading and downgrading plans in response to a request from the provisioning service.

**Resource destruction** - When DO sends a resource deletion request, your app will need to handle that.  You can specify what else will happen in this `Concern`.

## SSO Login request 

When a DO user sends a SSO request, you will need to log them into your app. How you authenticate a user is up to your app, but you can use the following to respond to the SSO login request: https://github.com/scott/do_addon_connector/blob/master/lib/generators/do_addon_connector/controllers/concerns/sso_login_extension.rb

## Notifications

The service will send notification webhooks to your app when certain events happen. If a customer fails to pay their bill, a webhook indicating this will be sent to your app.  Likewise, if the same customer becomes current again, another notification indicating this will be sent.

You can customize how your app behaves in response to any notification with `notifications_concern`.


## Contributing
Contribution directions go here.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). Copyright 2022 Scott Miller, Helpy.io, Inc.
